---
layout: single
title: "MDS Vulnerability"
date: 2018-04-11
---


Four new microprocessors flaws in Intel have been discovered and these flaws if exploited by an attacker with local shell access, could allow data in the CPU's cache to be exposed to unauthorized access. All these four vulnerabilities is a set of Intel's Microarchitecture Data Sampling (as Intel calls it) or MDS vulnerability. MDS vulnerability is said to be "easier than Spectre" and "difficult than Meltdown". Spectre and Meltdown are two techniques discovered by researchers that works by breaking through the barrier that prevents applications from accessing arbitary locations in kernel memory. It is claimed that MDS is the reminiscent of Meltdown and Spectre. While difficult to execute, a skilled attacker could use these flaws to read memory from a virtual or containerized instance, or the underlying host system and potentially steal sensitive information.

How it works:

MDS allows an attacker to sample data from previous operations and they can use other techniques to stitch the datas to make sense of it and possibly steal sensitive information. MDS is possible because of how Intel processors are optimized using buffers during speculative operations. There are different ways attackers can use MDS each targetting different processor structures.

The store buffer variant exploits how Intel processors speculatively forward data from a store buffer entry. To improve performance, the data in the store buffer entry isn't removed. A load searches the store buffer if it needs to forward a recent store to the same location. If the load requires special assistance, the processor may speculatively use stale data without checking if it's valid. So it may be possible to sample the data. The fill buffer and load variants work essentially the same way.

When hyper-threading is used, the fill buffer and load port variants are shared between hyper-threads so it is not possible to fully restrict access. If an attacker runs code on a peer hyper-thread while the user is using sensitive data, it is possible to sample that speculative data.



Mitigation:

For store buffer, latest security patches have been released and can be downloaded. However for fill buffer and load port variants, systems are not totally safe without disabling Intel Hyper-Threading. This will impact performance significantly. Red Hat Linux Enterprise Users will be given an option to enable/disable Intel Hyper-Threading during new installations or via command line options. More about the mitigation in the table below.


Details about each of the four vulnerabilities are below:


CVE-2018-12126 - Microarchitectural Store Buffer Data Sampling ( MSBDS ) Fallout
A flaw was found in many Intel microprocessor designs related to a possible information leak of the processor store buffer structure which contains recent stores (writes) to memory.

Modern Intel microprocessors implement hardware-level micro-optimizations to improve the performance of writing data back to CPU caches. The write operation is split into STA (STore Address) and STD (STore Data) sub-operations. These sub-operations allow the processor to hand-off address generation logic into these sub-operations for optimized writes. Both of these sub-operations write to a shared distributed processor structure called the 'processor store buffer'.

The processor store buffer is conceptually a table of address, value, and 'is valid' entries. As the sub-operations can execute independently of each other, they can each update the address, and/or value columns of the table independently. This means that at different points in time the address or value may be invalid.


The processor may speculatively forward entries from the store buffer. The split design used allows for such forwarding to speculatively use stale values, such as the wrong address, returning data from a previous unrelated store. Since this only occurs for loads that will be reissued following the fault/assist resolution, the program is not architecturally impacted, but store buffer state can be leaked to malicious code carefully crafted to retrieve this data via side-channel analysis.

The processor store buffer entries are equally divided between the number of active Hyper-Threads. Conditions such as power-state change can reallocate the processor store buffer entries in a half-updated state to another thread without ensuring that the entries have been cleared.

This issue is referred to by the researchers as Fallout.


CVE-2018-12127 - Microarchitectural Load Port Data Sampling ( MLPDS )
Microprocessors use ‘load ports’ to perform load operations from memory or IO. During a load operation, the load port receives data from the memory or IO subsystem and then provides the data to the CPU registers and operations in the CPU’s pipelines.

In some implementations, the writeback data bus within each load port can retain data values from older load operations until newer load operations overwrite that data

MLPDS can reveal stale load port data to malicious actors when:

A faulting/assisting SSE/AVX/AVX-512 loads that are more than 64 bits in size 
A faulting/assisting load which spans a 64-byte boundary.
In the above cases, the load operation speculatively provides stale data values from the internal data structures to dependent operations. Speculatively forwarding this data does not end up modifying program execution, but this can be used as a widget to speculatively infer the contents of a victim process’s data value through timing access to the load port.


CVE-2018-12130 - Microarchitectural Fill Buffer Data Sampling ( MFBDS ) (also called ZombieLoad- marked as "Important" by RedHat)
This issue has the most risk associated, which Red Hat has rated as Important. A flaw was found by researchers in the implementation of fill buffers used by Intel microprocessors.

A fill buffer holds data that has missed in the processor L1 data cache, as a result of an attempt to use a value that is not present. When a Level 1 data cache miss occurs within an Intel core, the fill buffer design allows the processor to continue with other operations while the value to be accessed is loaded from higher levels of cache. The design also allows the result to be forwarded to the Execution Unit, acquiring the load directly without being written into the Level 1 data cache.

A load operation is not decoupled in the same way that a store is, but it does involve an Address Generation Unit (AGU) operation. If the AGU generates a fault (#PF, etc.) or an assist (A/D bits) then the classical Intel design would block the load and later reissue it. In contemporary designs, it instead allows subsequent speculation operations to temporarily see a forwarded data value from the fill buffer slot prior to the load actually taking place. Thus it is possible to read data that was recently accessed by another thread if the fill buffer entry is not overwritten.

This issue is referred to by researchers as RIDL or ZombieLoad.

CVE-2019-11091 - Microarchitectural Data Sampling Uncacheable Memory (MDSUM)
A flaw was found in the implementation of the "fill buffer," a mechanism used by modern CPUs when a cache-miss is made on L1 CPU cache. If an attacker can generate a load operation that would create a page fault, the execution will continue speculatively with incorrect data from the fill buffer, while the data is fetched from higher-level caches. This response time can be measured to infer data in the fill buffer.

References:

https://zombieloadattack.com/zombieload.pdf

https://software.intel.com/security-software-guidance/insights/deep-dive-intel-analysis-microarchitectural-data-sampling

https://software.intel.com/security-software-guidance/software-guidance/microarchitectural-data-sampling

https://access.redhat.com/security/vulnerabilities/mds