FAQ about Covid-19 and Help for Nepali People

If you have symptoms contact 9851255839; 9851255837; 9851255834 for further advice.

(Via Sushil koirala) Saw this list of questions on one of the COVID-19 facebook page but now I cant find the page. 

1. Is Teku Hospital is only the Hospital for testing Covid19 in Nepal?

    No- All hospitals can manage a case of COVID-19. Since there is no treatment per se case management involves giving antivirals and antibacterial therapy to patients with severe symptoms. 80% of people get better themselves and do not require any treatment.
    Yes, Teku hospital is a specialized hospital that has more experience dealing with the case of viral diseases like this. They are also close to National Lab which is the only lab In Nepal (as of today) that does confirmatory testing for COVID-19. But please remember other hospitals can take a specimen and send it to NPHL. Patients do not have to go to Teku hospital for it.

2. How many Testing Kit is Currently present in Hospital?

    The last news suggests that we have about 1500 test kits left. 522 tests were done till yesterday

3. Is Testing of Swab done in Nepal or is being Sent to Foreign Country & What is the means of Transport?

    Testing is done in Nepal; however, sometimes samples of positive cases are sent to a WHO reference lab in the region for re-confirmation. The doctors are, however, immediately notified when a case shows a positive result. It is transported in the Viral transport medium (VTM). You can understand it as a tube with rubber seals and has chemicals inside it to prevent the specimen from disintegrating. It is generally Tripple packed in virus transport package. Maintained a cold chain of 2-8 degrees. Probably put in a puncture-resistant box and sent in a plane.

4. If Incase sends to Foreign how many days it takes for the report to come?
    
    It depends but its not very quick. The test itself can be cone in two hours or so but it can generally take a week. Again the positive cases are reported to doctors immediately so treatment and isolation do not have to wait.

5. What is the survival rate & time period of the virus outside the human body?
    
    No one knows for sure. It depends on the environmental condition, but studies suggest it can survive in the environment for days. Generally, viruses are known to survive for thousands of years in the right scenario. Since they are not considering living and do not have any metabolism they are either inactive or active. Not live or dead.

6. What is the efficiency of the test results when conducted over such a long time period?
    
    Not sure what do you mean by efficiency but RT PCR tests are effective in detecting viruses from 2 days after the infection till the patient is cured. A cure is defined as a non-detectable viral load for two consecutive tests 2 days apart. The majority of people are cured within 11 days of showing the symptoms. RT PCR tests are quite accurate but low viral load and poor specimen collection reduce its effectiveness to about 90%.

7. If testing is not done here than How the doctors are coming to the conclusion whether it is 
Positive or Negative in such a small time period?

    Tests are done here. But not everyone who has a fever or cough are tested for coronavirus. There are two reasons for it:
    The whole world has a lot fewer test kits, even with money and technology available, one cant buy test kits easily. To give you an idea WHO says, the demand for test kits is 80 times the level of current supply.

You don’t need to test everyone with fever and cough for COVID-19. The way it works is:
You go to a doctor, he/she examines you and asks you questions to check if other illnesses and travel history.
If you are at risk after examination, doctors normally send your sample to test for Viral influenza. Since the symptoms are the similar (and there are lot more test kits available for viral influenza) a test is done to rule out if your fever or cough is due to viral influenza and not COVID-19
If you are negative for viral influenza your sample is then tested for COVID-19.
Occasionally, if the doctors see you have severe symptoms, and or likely contact with a known case or a travel history to an country with active epidemic, they can order both tests together.

I hope it helps, Please stay indoors, exercise, stay positive and healthy and wash hands regularly. When out use masks and wash hands frequently. If you have symptoms contact 9851255839; 9851255837; 9851255834 for further advice.